NPM:
---

->npm is the package manager for JavaScript.
->npm is the world's largest Software Registry.
->The registry contains over 800,000 code packages.
->Open-source developers use npm to share software.
->Many organizations also use npm to manage private development.
->npm is also a software Package Manager and Installer.
->npm is free to use.
->npm includes a CLI (Command Line Client) that can be used to download and install software:


->package.json is present in the root directory of any Node application/module and is used to define the   properties of a package.
->package.json includes a starter set of packages, some of which are required by Angular and others that   support common application scenarios.

->to install a package we use:   
  npm install <package_name>

	
					some of the packages are:
					-------------------------
1.Express
 Express is the leading Node.js framework for quickly creating and publishing applications, and APIs. The frameworks minimal structure allows any Node.js developer to quickly launch a functional application with the use of Express Generator.

2.Async.js
 The library is meant to be used with Node.js, originally, but these days it will work with browsers too, so you can inject it in any project, whether it uses Node.js or not. There are more than twenty functions that this library gives you control over.
 
3.Request – Simplified HTTP Client
 With Request, making HTTP calls becomes an easy, secure, and reliable way of accessing external content on the web, in any form imaginable. It works well with authentication methods too.

4.Browserify
 Browserify allows us to create the kind of client-side codebase that’s organized, structured, and easy to navigate. Anyone can use Browserify to create solid components that quickly allocate dependencies according to their use at any particular situation.

5.Grunt
 Grunt provides a ton of plugins that you can use to automate even the most mundane tasks, without any extra effort from your side. And if you feel that there isn’t a plugin that does what you need, well.. just go ahead and create your own, Grunt lets you publish Grunt-specific plugins through NPM.

6.PM2
 PM2 offers both process management for production applications, and a load-balancer to help with any possible performance tweaks. With PM2, your applications stay online indefinitely, giving you the tools to reload apps without having to experience any sort of downtime. 

7.Socket.IO
Socket lets you build truly real-time communication apps that would require real-time streams of content, whether directly from the data that you are working with, or through an API that comes from an external source. Some example apps that we have seen is a Twitter bot for collecting latest tweets, a Facebook bot for watching news, and other interesting combinations of APIs that work with data in real-time.

8.Commander.js
Commander.js (based on Ruby) is a great solution for creating command-line interfaces without any fuss.

9.Mocha
A feature-rich JavaScript test framework running on Node.js and the browser, making asynchronous testing simple and fun. Mocha tests run serially, allowing for flexible and accurate reporting, while mapping uncaught exceptions to the correct test cases.

10.Bower	
Bower carefully allocates all the packages that you are using, and then helps you to keep the updated, and regularly checked against any potential risks. A simple Bower file can help you maintain an application the size of Fortune 500 companies.

11.underscore
Underscore is popular amongst developers who enjoy more rapid development workflow through the use of programming helpers. With more than 100+ helpers to choose from, Underscore bridges the gap between opening a new HTML document and writing code for it, without the need to think how complex functions operate.

12.UglifyJS2
 UglifyJS2 trims and minifies your JavaScript files for you automatically. It’s flexible, easy to use, and helps you to gain those performance margins that you seek.

13.Cheerio
Cheerio is a fast, flexible, and lean implementation of core jQuery designed specifically for the server.

14.Passport
Passport is a unique authentication module for Node.js devs. The main goal of Passport is to help with authentication requests, this Passport achieves through the use of third-party plugins that act as authentication methods, otherwise known as strategies. 

15.Nodemailer
Nodemailer, a secure framework for doing email management within your Node.js applications.

16.Hapi
Hapi is a server-framework that will happily assist us in building apps, and services. With Hapi, we can put all of our focus towards writing the application logic, with a very concise approach.

17.React
Combining React with Node.js makes for an amazingly fast web application experience. Developed by Facebook, React lets us build fast interfaces that scale and focus only on the important parts of our UI.

18.Karma
Karma is one such tool that does the job of testing beautifully. The reasons to use Karma are long, some of them include: ability to test your code in the browser, but also cross-browser.

19.Pug
Formerly known as Jade (although still using old website), Pug is a node templating engine.

20.Node MySQL
The Node MySQL library is a native implementation of the MySQL Protocol for the Node.js JS Client. 
